# AirTrafficController

Air Traffic Control is a simulation program that controls the planes both landing and departing in order to be collision-free and starvation-free. 
In this project there are .c source code files for 3 parts. There are few changes between each parts but the assumptions are similar. In this project we created a queue data structure implementation in order to be used for landing, departing and emergency planes. Each queue has first and last queue element as well as with size. It has createQueue, put and get method to push and pop planes.  Queue elements are pointers to the planes. Each queue element has two pointers; now and next. With this implementation we can easily move between queue elements. Planes have IDs, arrival times, conditions and mutexes. So that each plane has its own thread and can be signaled individually by air traffic controller(tower). Air traffic control has its own thread and its main duty is to  check each queues with the given and required conditions. It sends signals to the planes to say them “Get ready”. So that the plane knows it must land/depart. If it must land/depart then the landing/departing function starts to work. It sleeps for 2t seconds because these operations take 2t seconds. If an emergency plane should land then emergency landing starts to operate. The main creator in this project is main function. It creates all the threads, tower and planes. It initially put the planes in both the landing and departing queue. Then it creates planes in the while loop by random and emergency planes every 40t seconds (part3). It first sleeps for t seconds to start after initially created planes. All the parts in our project works fine and we implemented what is required with our assumptions and perceptions.
